Jehovah is the Great Healer.
Only he can make the promise:
“No resident will say, ‘I am sick.’”
Why can we be confident
that Jehovah is going to keep his promise
to bring an end to all sickness?
We find assurance
in the words of Isaiah 35:5, 6.
Please open your Bibles to that scripture.
Here we read a promise of healing
that Jehovah made to the nation of Israel.
This promise gives us hope
because it was actually fulfilled
on a small scale
more than 2,500 years ago.
Isaiah 35:5, 6 reads:
“At that time
the eyes of the blind will be opened,
“and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped.
“At that time
the lame will leap like the deer,
“and the tongue of the speechless
will shout for joy.
“For waters will burst forth
in the wilderness,
and streams in the desert plain.”
Isaiah recorded this promise 125 years
before the Babylonian army
destroyed Jerusalem.
It was fulfilled
after Jehovah freed the Israelites
from Babylonian captivity in 537 B.C.E.
and restored them
to their homeland in Israel.
But you may ask,
‘Were the blind, deaf, lame, and speechless
really healed at that time?’
To answer,
we need to apply a basic principle:
Jehovah restores what was lost.
During the 70 years of exile,
Jehovah did not punish the Israelites
by striking them with physical blindness,
deafness, lameness, and loss of speech.
Therefore,
their restoration would not require
the healing of their physical disabilities.
However,
these afflictions are a good description
of the self-inflicted spiritual sickness
that had caused the nation
to fall into apostasy
and lose Jehovah’s favor.
Jehovah saw their repentant attitude
and their desire to restore
true worship in Jerusalem.
He healed their spiritual sickness
by forgiving their sins
and restoring them to his favor.
In other words,
they came to their spiritual senses.
They regained their spiritual vision
and their ability to hear, obey,
and speak Jehovah’s word.
No longer spiritually lame,
they were energized
to carry on Jehovah’s pure worship.
Similarly today, we are eyewitnesses.
Yes, we are the beneficiaries
of a worldwide spiritual healing program.
Jehovah heals us spiritually by freeing us
from false religious teachings
and unclean practices.
He has brought us into a spiritual paradise,
where our spiritual strength
is renewed day by day.
In a spiritual sense,
the blind are learning to see
and the deaf are learning to hear.
But is spiritual healing the only part
of the fulfillment of Jehovah’s promise?
No.
Please open your Bibles to Isaiah 33:24.
As we read this verse,
pay attention to the latter part,
because it contains
the key to understanding
why physical healing
is included in God’s promise:
“No resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
Isaiah 33:24 says:
“And no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’
The people dwelling in the land
will be pardoned for their error.”
Did you notice that the end of sickness
is related to our being pardoned
for our errors, or sins?
Clearly, that ties the fulfillment
to a spiritual healing.
However, our imperfect, sinful condition
is also the reason
that we get physically sick.
Therefore, in the new world,
on the basis of the healing power
of Jesus’ ransom sacrifice,
we will experience
a healing of our physical sicknesses.
Jehovah’s promise
that “no resident will say: ‘I am sick’”
will come true in the complete sense.
As you watch the following video,
think about the spiritual blessings
we enjoy now
and imagine what our lives
will be like in the future
when all our physical ailments
will be healed.
Clear instruction from Jehovah
draws us close to him
and maintains spiritual health.
While false teachings hold many
in the grip of spiritual darkness,
Jehovah offers true freedom.
The spiritual health we enjoy now
reminds us
that perfect physical and mental health
await us in Paradise.
Imagine waking every day
feeling clean,
healthy,
happy,
and full of the joy of life.
Jehovah promises:
“No resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
How refreshing and heartwarming
to think of the global healing
that lies ahead!
We are confident
that this is going to happen.
Why?
Because we have already experienced
how Jehovah has healed us spiritually.
Keep in mind
the powerful statement from the video:
“The spiritual health we enjoy now
“reminds us that perfect physical
and mental health
await us in Paradise.”
We also learned from the video
that clear instruction from Jehovah
draws us close to him
and helps us to maintain
our spiritual health today.
What a blessing it is
to be taught by Jehovah!
We can show our appreciation
for this spiritual healing
by thanking Jehovah in prayer.
Psalm 40:5 mentions another way
we can thank the Great Healer
for all he has done and will do for us.
Let’s read it.
Psalm 40:5 says:
“How many things you have done,
O Jehovah my God,
“your wonderful works
and your thoughts toward us.
“None can compare to you;
“if I were to try to tell and speak of them,
they would be too numerous to recount!”
Our gratitude to Jehovah
will move us to tell others
about Jehovah’s wonderful works,
to speak of the many things he has done.
And we will never run out of good things
to say about our God.
Those who respond favorably
will come to know Jehovah
as their Great Healer
and enjoy his friendship forever.
Granted, today many of us are dealing
with serious health challenges.
But we do what we can to share with others
this good news about healing.
And we take delight in Jehovah’s promises,
which cannot fail.
When Jesus was on earth,
no sickness was beyond his ability to heal,
whether it was
physical, mental, or emotional.
In the new world,
such healings will take place
on a much grander scale
and the cures will be permanent.
Many of the great crowd
will go through the great tribulation
with serious, debilitating illnesses.
Our publications have said
that it seems reasonable
to expect that shortly after the destruction
of Satan’s system of things,
miracles like those
that Jesus performed while on earth
will no doubt take place on a global scale.
That will allow all survivors
of the great tribulation
to have a satisfying share
in transforming this earth
into a beautiful paradise.
And by the end of Jesus’ Thousand Year Reign,
they will reach the very fullness
of perfect human life.
As we enjoy the rich blessings
of our spiritual paradise now,
let’s keep in mind
that these spiritual blessings
are evidence that all the promises
of the Great Healer will come true.
We will forever take delight
in the complete fulfillment
of Jehovah’s promise
that “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
Brother Gerrit Lösch,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now present
the final talk of this symposium,
“Take Delight in God’s Promises of Peace
—‘He Will Swallow Up Death Forever.’”